
rc_visard_driver
----------------

This nodelet provides data from a [Roboception rc_visard](https://roboception.com/rc_visard) sensor on several ROS
topics.

Please also consult the manual for more details: https://doc.rc-visard.com

Build/Installation
------------------

See the [main README](../README.md)


Configuration
-------------

#### Parameters

Parameters to be set to the ROS param server before run-time.

* `device`: The ID of the device, i.e. Roboception rc_visard sensor.
  This can be either the

  * serial number, e.g. `02912345`

    IMPORTANT: preceed with a colon (`:02912345`) when passing this on the commandline or
    setting it via rosparam (see https://github.com/ros/ros_comm/issues/1339).
    This is not neccessary when specifying it as a string in a launch file.

  * user defined name (factory default: `rc_visard`), must be unique among all
    reachable sensors

  * internal ID, which is generated by the used GenTL producer. Often, this ID
    contains the MAC address in some way. This ID can change with the
    implementation of the transport layer.

  See https://github.com/roboception/rc_genicam_api#device-id for more details.
  By default this parameter is set to `rc_visard`, which works with one
  rc_visard with factory settings connected.

* `gev_access`:  The gev_access mode, i.e.:
  * 'control'   Configuration and streaming with the possibility of other
                clients to read GenICam parameters. This is the default.
  * 'exclusive' Exclusive access to the sensor. This prevents other clients to
                read GenICam parameters.
  * 'off'       Switches gev access completely off. The node only streams pose
                information if switched on.

* `max_reconnects`: Maximum number of consecutive recovery trials in case
  the driver lost connection to the device or another error happened,
  e.g. during streaming data.
  If 0, no recovery is tried at all. If negative, the driver keeps trying to
  re-connect forever until a connection is re-established. Default: 5.

* `enable_tf`: If true then the node subscribes to the rc_visard's
  dynamics-pose stream and publishes them on tf. Default: false

* `enable_visualization_markers`: If true, additional visualization markers are
  published that visualize the rc_visard's dynamics state (velocities and accelerations),
  see `/dynamics_visualization_markers` topic. Default: false

* `autostart_dynamics`: If true, the rc_visard's dynamics module is turned on
  with this ROS node's start up. Default: false

* `autostart_dynamics_with_slam`: If true, the rc_visard's dynamics module tries
  to turn on SLAM with this ROS node's start up.
  If SLAM is not available (no license) only a warning is printed. Default: false

* `autostop_dynamics`: If true, the rc_visard's dynamics module is turned off
  when this ROS node shuts down. Default: false

* `autopublish_trajectory`: If true, results of the `get_trajectory` service
  calls are automatically published to `/trajectory` topic.
  Default: false

#### Dynamic-reconfigure Parameters

These parameters can be changed during runtime via dynamic reconfigure:

* `ptp_enabled`: Enable PTP slave (PrecisionTimeProtocol, IEEE1588)

* `camera_fps`: Frames per second that are published by this nodelet.
  Publishing frames will be slowed down depending on this setting. Setting
  it higher than the real framerate of the specific device has no effect.

* `camera_exp_auto`: If true, then the exposure time is chosen automatically,
  up to exp_max as maximum. If false, then exp_value is used as exposure
  time in seconds.

* `camera_exp_max`: Maximum exposure time in seconds if exp_auto is true.

* `camera_exp_value`: Exposure time in seconds if exp_auto is false.

* `camera_gain_value`: Gain factor in decibel if exp_auto is false.

* `depth_acquisition_mode`: Can be either `SingleFrame` or `Continuous`. Only
  the first letter will be checked, thus giving `S` or `C` is sufficient.

* `depth_quality`: Quality can be "Low", "Medium", "High" and "Full". Only the first
  letter will be checked, thus specification of "L", "M", "H" or "F" is
  sufficient. The quality setting effectively downscales the image after
  the downscale factor as given above:

  + Full does not downscale the image, i.e. factor is 1 (e.g. 1280x960).
    NOTE: This mode requires the 'stereo_plus' license on the rc_visard.
  + High downscales by factor 2 (e.g. 640x480).
  + Medium downscales by factor 4 (e.g. 320x240).
  + Low downscales by factor 6 (e.g. 214x160).

* `depth_static_scene`: This parameter can be set to true if the scene and
  camera is static. It only has an effect if quality is either High or Full.
  If active, input images are accumulated and averaged for 300 ms to reduce
  noise. This limits the frame rate to a maximum of 3 Hz. The timestamp of
  the disparity image is taken from the first image that was used for
  accumulation.

* `depth_disprange`: Disparity range in pixel, related to the downscaled
  image at quality=H. The range is adapted to the quality.

* `depth_fill`: Higher numbers fill gaps with measurments with potentielly
  higher errors.

* `depth_seg`: Maximum size of isolated disparity regions that will be
  invalidated, related to full resolution.

* `depth_smooth`: Switching smoothing of disparities on or off.
  NOTE: Smoothing requires the 'stereo_plus' license on the rc_visard.

* `depth_median`: Performs median filtering with the given window size.

* `depth_minconf`: Minimal confidence. All disparities with lower confidence
  will be set to invalid.

* `depth_mindepth`: Minimum depth in meter. All disparities with lower depth
  will be set to invalid.

* `depth_maxdepth`: Maximum depth in meter. All disparities with higher depth
  will be set to invalid.

* `depth_maxdeptherr`: Maximum depth error in meter. All disparities with a
  higher depth error will be set to invalid.

* `out1_mode`: Mode for the digital GPIO out1. Possible values are:

  * `Low` for switching out1 permanently off.
  * `High` for switching out1 permanently on.
  * `ExposureActive` for switching out1 on for the exposure time of every
    image.
  * `ExposureAlternateActive` for switching out1 on for the exposure time of
    every second image.

  The value can only be changed if the rc_visard has an `IO Control` license.
  The default is `ExposureActive`.

* `out2_mode`: Mode for the digital GPIO out2. The functionality is the same
  as for `out1_mode`. The default is `Low`.

For color sensors, the following dynamic-reconfigure parameters are additionally
available:

* `camera_wb_auto`: If true, then white balancing is done automatically. If
  false, then the red and blue to green ratios can be chosen manually.

* `camera_wb_ratio_red`: Red to green ratio for color balancing if
  `camera_wb_auto` is false.

* `camera_wb_ratio_blue`: Blue to green ratio for color balancing if
  `camera_wb_auto` is false.

Provided Topics
---------------

The following topics are provided. The nodelet tries to request only
data (e.g., images, poses) from the sensor if there is subscriber
to the corresponding topic.

#### Images, Stereo Data, Point Clouds

* /stereo/left/camera_info (sensor_msgs::CameraInfo)
* /stereo/right/camera_info (sensor_msgs::CameraInfo)
* /stereo/left/image_rect (sensor_msgs::Image, MONO8)
* /stereo/right/image_rect (sensor_msgs::Image, MONO8)
* /stereo/disparity (stereo_msgs::DisparityImage)
* /stereo/disparity_color (sensor_msgs::Image, RGB8, visually pleasing)
* /stereo/depth (sensor_msgs::Image, TYPE_32FC1)
* /stereo/confidence (sensor_msgs::Image, TYPE_32FC1, values between 0 and 1)
* /stereo/error_disparity (sensor_msgs::Image, TYPE_32FC1)
* /stereo/error_depth (sensor_msgs::Image, TYPE_32FC1)
* /stereo/points2 (sensor_msgs::PointCloud2)

For color sensors, the following topics are additionally available:

* /stereo/left/image_rect_color (sensor_msgs::Image, format: RGB8)
* /stereo/right/image_rect_color (sensor_msgs::Image, format: RGB8)

If the connected rc_visard has an `IO Control` license, then the following
topics are additionally provided for images where the GPIO out1 is either low
or high. These topics only useful if `out1_mode` is set to the special mode
`ExposureAlternateActive`.

* /stereo/left/image_rect_out1_low (sensor_msgs::Image, MONO8)
* /stereo/left/image_rect_out1_high (sensor_msgs::Image, MONO8)
* /stereo/right/image_rect_out1_low (sensor_msgs::Image, MONO8)
* /stereo/right/image_rect_out1_high (sensor_msgs::Image, MONO8)

For color sensors with an `IO Control` license, the following topics are
additionally available:

* /stereo/left/image_rect_color_out1_low (sensor_msgs::Image, format: RGB8)
* /stereo/left/image_rect_color_out1_high (sensor_msgs::Image, format: RGB8)
* /stereo/right/image_rect_color_out1_low (sensor_msgs::Image, format: RGB8)
* /stereo/right/image_rect_color_out1_high (sensor_msgs::Image, format: RGB8)

#### Dynamic State (i.e. poses, IMU data, etc.)

These topics deliver the rc_visard's estimated dynamic state such as its
position, orientation, and velocity. For these topics to work properly,
the rc_visard's dynamics module must be turned on (see respective
service calls or startup-parameters).

* /pose (geometry_msgs/PoseStamped; same data as provided via tf if
  `enable_tf` is set to true)
* /pose_ins (geometry_msgs/PoseStamped)
* /pose_rt (geometry_msgs/PoseStamped)
* /pose_rt_ins (geometry_msgs/PoseStamped)
* /dynamics (nav_msgs/Odometry)
* /dynamics_ins (nav_msgs/Odometry)

This topic delivers raw measurements from the on-board IMU sensor:
* /imu (sensor_msgs/Imu)

#### TF

If the parameter `enable_tf` is set to true, the node subscribes to the
rc_visard's pose stream (same data published on `/pose` topic) and publishes them on tf.


Relevant Coordinate Frames
--------------------------

The following coordinate frames are relevant for interpreting the data
provided by the rc_visard:

* `camera`: The pupil's center of the rc_visard's left camera. All
  stereo-camera data such as images and point clouds are given in this frame.
* `world`: Relevant for navigation applications. The world frame’s origin is
  located at the origin of the rc_visard’s IMU coordinate frame at the instant
  when state estimation is switched on. Estimated poses of the rc_visard are
  given in this frame, i.e. as the rc_visard moves in the world and state
  estimation is running, the `camera` frame will change w.r.t. this frame.
* `imu`: The IMU coordinate frame is inside the rc_visard’s housing. The raw
  IMU measurements are given in this frame.

#### Running multiple rc_visard's in one ros environment

For operating multiple rc_visard's in one ros environment, each ros node must
be started in separate namespaces, e.g., `my_visard`. As a result, all
frame_ids in all ros messages will be prefixed, e.g., to `my_visard_world` or
`my_visard_camera`.

Services
--------

The following service is offered to trigger stereo matching in `SingleFrame`
mode. It returns an error if the `depth_acquisition_mode` is `Continuous`.

* `depth_acquisition_trigger`

The following services are offered to start, stop, and restart the rc_visard's
dynamic module (which needs to be started for working dynamic-state estimates).

* `dynamics_start`
* `dynamics_restart`
* `dynamics_stop`
* `dynamics_start_slam`
* `dynamics_restart_slam`
* `dynamics_stop_slam`

The trajectory constructed and stored by the `rc_slam` node
can be retrieved by

* `slam_get_trajectory`

The onboard map of the `rc_slam` node can be saved on the rc_visard for loading it
after a SLAM restart or power cycle:

* `slam_save_map`
* `slam_load_map`
* `slam_remove_map`

The onboard `rc_slam` node can be "reset" (clears the internal state of the SLAM component,
including the trajectory) to free the memory with

* `slam_reset`


Diagnostics
-----------

The rc_visard_driver uses the `diagnostics_updater` class from the
[ROS diagnostics stack](https://wiki.ros.org/diagnostics) to regularly publish a
[DiagnosticStatus Message](http://docs.ros.org/api/diagnostic_msgs/html/msg/DiagnosticStatus.html).

The regular publishing rate can be set via the `~diagnostic_period` parameter and defaults to 1 second.

Currently two status are published:

- `Device`: Information about the device that the driver is connected to. It covers the *rc_visard's*
serial number, mac address, user-defined GeV ID, and the firmware image version.

- `Connection`: Status of the current connection between rc_visard_driver and rc_visard.
It publishes 4 different messages:

  - `Disconnected` (Error): The driver is currently not (yet) connected to the sensor and
  might try to reconnect several times according to the `max_reconnects` parameter.
  - `Idle` (Ok): The driver is connected but not publishing any data because
  no one is subscribed to any.
  - `No data` (Warning): The driver is connected and required to publish data but
  itself does not receive any data from the sensor.
  - `Streaming` (Ok): The driver is connected and properly streaming data.

  The published status values are `connection_loss_total`,
  `incomplete_buffers_total`, `image_receive_timeouts_total`, and
  `current_reconnect_trial`. If not `Disconnected`, additionally the current `ip_address` and `gev_packet_size` are published.


Launching
---------

* Using command line parameters:

      rosrun rc_visard_driver rc_visard_driver _device:=:02912345 _enable_tf:=True _autostart_dynamics:=True _autostop_dynamics:=True

* As a nodelet, and in a separate **namespace**:

      ROS_NAMESPACE=my_visard rosrun nodelet nodelet standalone rc_visard_driver _device:=:02912345

  Note that in this setup all frame_ids in all ros messages (including
  tf-messages) will be prefixed with `my_visard`, e.g., the frame_id of
  the published camera images will be `my_visard_camera`, the frame_id
  of the poses will be `my_visard_world`, and the frame_id of
  the Imu messages will be `my_visard_imu`.
